Conceptual
1. For each of parts (a) through (d), indicate whether we would generally
expect the performance of a fexible statistical learning method to be
better or worse than an infexible method. Justify your answer.

(a) The sample size n is extremely large, and the number of predictors p is small.
You need a flexible method since you have a lot of variables to adjust miss and dismiss.

(b) The number of predictors p is extremely large, and the number
of observations n is small.

(c) The relationship between the predictors and response is highly
non-linear.
You need an inflexible method since there are not much variables to adjust,

(d) The variance of the error terms, i.e. σ2 = Var("), is extremely
high.
You need an inflexible method so you can verifiy that the noise has centered noise.

2. Explain whether each scenario is a classifcation or regression problem, and indicate whether we are most interested in inference or prediction. Finally, provide n and p.

(a) We collect a set of data on the top 500 frms in the US. For each
frm we record proft, number of employees, industry and the
CEO salary. We are interested in understanding which factors
afect CEO salary.

Regression, inference.
p=3, n=500

(b) We are considering launching a new product and wish to know
whether it will be a success or a failure. We collect data on 20
similar products that were previously launched. For each product we have recorded whether it was a success or failure, price
charged for the product, marketing budget, competition price,
and ten other variables.

Classification, prediction.
p=13 n=20

(c) We are interested in predicting the % change in the USD/Euro
exchange rate in relation to the weekly changes in the world
stock markets. Hence we collect weekly data for all of 2012. For
each week we record the % change in the USD/Euro, the %
change in the US market, the % change in the British market,
and the % change in the German market.

Regression, prediction
p=4, n=52


3. We now revisit the bias-variance decomposition.

(a) Provide a sketch of typical (squared) bias, variance, training error, test error, and Bayes (or irreducible) error curves, on a single plot, as we go from less fexible statistical learning methods
towards more fexible approaches. The x-axis should represent
the amount of fexibility in the method, and the y-axis should
represent the values for each curve. There should be five curves.
Make sure to label each one.

This is the first plot in figure 2.12 adding the curveof training mse on figure 2.9.

(b) Explain why each of the five curves has the shape displayed in
part (a).

Bias:
Tends to be decreasing since real world problems tend to be more flexible and then it is necessary to use more flexible problem.s

Variance:
It always tends to increase since the most flexibility the curve depends more on the traning data and we have more variablity.

Training error:
It always tends to zero since the biggest the flexibility it approaches best the points.

Test error:
It has a U shape since at tje begging the training error is doing its job, until it starts the overffiting and then losses approximation to the test data.

Bayes error curve:
It is a constant that represents the noise that is not possible to predict with the model.



4. You will now think of some real-life applications for statistical learning.
(a) Describe three real-life applications in which classifcation might
be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the
goal of each application inference or prediction? Explain your
answer.


(b) Describe three real-life applications in which regression might
be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the
goal of each application inference or prediction? Explain your
answer.


(c) Describe three real-life applications in which cluster analysis
might be useful.


5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of a very fexible (versus
a less fexible) approach for regression or classification? Under what
circumstances might a more fexible approach be preferred to a less
fexible approach? When might a less fexible approach be preferred?


6. Describe the diferences between a parametric and a non-parametric
statistical learning approach. What are the advantages of a parametric approach to regression or classifcation (as opposed to a nonparametric approach)? What are its disadvantages?


7. The table below provides a training data set containing six observations, three predictors, and one qualitative response variable.
Obs. X1 X2 X3 Y
1  0 3 0 Red
2 2 0 0 Red
3 0 1 3 Red
4 0 1 2 Green
5 −1 0 1 Green
6 1 1 1 Red
Suppose we wish to use this data set to make a prediction for Y when
X1 = X2 = X3 = 0 using K-nearest neighbors.

(a) Compute the Euclidean distance between each observation and
the test point, X1 = X2 = X3 = 0.
1 3 R
2 2 R
3 3.16 R
4 2.23 G
5 1.41 G
6 1.73 R

(b) What is our prediction with K = 1? Why?
Green. The closest point is Green.

(c) What is our prediction with K = 3? Why?
Red. We have 1G 2R.

(d) If the Bayes decision boundary in this problem is highly nonlinear, then would we expect the best value for K to be large or
small? Why?
Small. The biggest the value of K the boundary tends to be less flexible.